---
copyright:
  years: 2026
lastupdated: "2026-02-25"

keywords: mongodb, databases, admin user, service credentials, ops manager, mongodb managing users, roles, root account

subcollection: databases-for-mongodb-gen2

---

{{site.data.keyword.attribute-definition-list}}

[Gen 2]{: tag-purple}

# Managing users and roles
{: #user-management}

[Gen 2]{: tag-purple}

As part of provisioning a new deployment in {{site.data.keyword.cloud}}, you can use the service credential console page to create a user with different roles (`Manager` and `Writer`).

{{site.data.keyword.databases-for-mongodb}} deployments no longer include a default `admin` user. Instead, you create a user with the `Manager` or `Writer` role using the {{site.data.keyword.cloud}} _Service Credentials_ interface — via UI or CLI. These users come with necessary credentials to connect to and manage the deployment.

### The manager user
{: #user-manager}

The `Manager` user functions as an admin-like user and is automatically granted the below privileges:

```sh
  "dbAdminAnyDatabase",
	"readWriteAnyDatabase",
	"readAnyDatabase",
	"clusterMonitor",
	"clusterManager",
	"backup",
	"restore"
```
{: pre}

Changing the user password is not supported via the {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} console on Gen 2.

### Create the manager user in the CLI
{: #manager_user_set_cli}
{: cli}

Use one of the following commands from the {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} CLI {{site.data.keyword.databases-for}} plug-in to create the `Manager` user.

```sh
ibmcloud resource service-key-create <service_key_name> Manager --instance-name <instance_name>
```
{: pre}

```sh
ibmcloud resource service-key-create <service_key_name> Manager --instance-id <guid>
```
{: pre}


### Creating users in the console
{: #user-management-set-admin-password-ui}
{: ui}

1. Go to the service dashboard for your service.
2. Click **Service credentials**.
3. Click **New credential**.
4. Choose a descriptive name for your new credential.
5. **Optional** Specify if the new credentials should use a public or private endpoint. Use `{ "service-endpoints": "private" }` in the *Add inline configuration parameters* field to generate connection strings using the specified endpoint. Use of the endpoint is not enforced, it just controls which hostnames are in the connection strings. Private endpoints are generated by default. On Gen 2, only `private` endpoints are supported.
6. Click **Add** to provision the new credential. A username and password, and an associated database user in the {{site.data.keyword.databases-for-mongodb}} are generated.

### Setting the admin password in the CLI
{: #user-management-set-admin-password-cli}
{: cli}

Use the `cdb user-password` command from the {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} CLI {{site.data.keyword.databases-for}} plug-in to set the admin password.

For example, to set the admin password for your deployment, use the following command:

```sh
ibmcloud cdb user-password <INSTANCE_NAME_OR_CRN> admin <NEWPASSWORD>
```
{: pre}

Creating a user from the CLI or API doesn't automatically populate that user's connection strings into _Service Credentials_. If you want to add them there, you can create a new credential with the existing user information. Enter the username and password in the JSON field under _Add Inline Configuration Parameters_. For example, `{"existing_credentials":{"username":"Robert","password":"supersecure"}}`. So, you provide the username and password, and _Service Credentials_ generates the connection strings with the credentials filled in.

Generating credentials from an existing user does not check for or create that user.
{: .tip}
